I was raised with three sisters,
and my mom was in the truth.
I remember sitting on the sofa
and just talking about spiritual things
with my mom.
And she taught us to appreciate
any assignment that we had
—to see it as something very special.
Pioneering was my life.
Gilead to me was a way to give to others
—to be very busy in service.
I prayed to Jehovah.
I said, “I really want to go to Gilead
but, if it’s possible, to have a wife too.”
And I just thought, ‘Boy, are you pushy!’
You know, and so—
But Jehovah gave me that.
I went to Gilead.
And to my amazement,
there was the most lovely, spiritual sister,
a student in the same class, Lois.
I met her and was able to marry her
one week after Gilead.
Arriving as a newlywed couple
in a missionary home with seven other people
was quite daunting.
But we didn’t let that faze us;
we were on our honeymoon.
Colombia was a paradise spiritually.
We loved it so much!
This was the kind of life we wanted.
Lois was a great teacher in the ministry.
I always enjoyed working with her;
she was actually a great support for me.
Obviously, Colombia had its risks.
I remember in the mornings,
sometimes it got to the point when
I would look at Lois and she would look
at me and we’d just say,
“If I don’t see you, see you
in the Paradise,” you know?
Colombia became our home.
We traveled the length and breadth
of the country
in our different assignments.
We had been over 20 years in Colombia
when it became very evident
that Lois’s mom would need our care.
This, of course,
would mean leaving our assignment.
It almost tore my heart apart
to leave Colombia.
I felt I was abandoning so many privileges
and my treasured assignment.
In the U.S.A.,
we were working as a team,
and I could see Lois really organized,
making the best of the situation.
Helping her mom
was really the source,
in a way, of her deep joy.
Helping others was just a way of life
to Lois.
It doesn’t matter what privilege you have
and what responsibility;
true happiness
is always found in giving.
Really, Lois got very ill.
Lois never cried about her illness
or felt sorry for herself.
She always was focused on others
and would give of herself, even
within the pain of illness.
Now that Lois has passed,
many times I think of her example,
and it just motivates me to carry on.
Here at the Central America branch
I am surrounded by such a loving family.
I resolved when
I went through this situation
with losing my wife to find others
that were in similar situations
and maybe sit down for a coffee.
Just that fellow feeling
of just being able
to show interest and to encourage
another person is a great joy
that I personally find one
of the most helpful things
to endure trials.